Welcome to **Rattle** (https://rattle.togaware.com).

Rattle is a toolbox for data science, statistical analyses, data
visualisation, machine learning, and artificial intelligence,
supporting Data Scientists turning their data into stories for genuine
impact. It is used extensively for teaching and by practitioners world
wide. After 20 years Version 6 brings a fresh interface to the
traditional application.

The [Data Science Desktop Survival
Guide](https://survivor.togaware.com/datascience) provides an
introduction to data science and a guide to using Rattle. It is freely
available from [Togaware](https://togaware.com).

Rattle V6 (RattleNG) is implemented using
[Flutter](https://flutter.dev) for the front-end, retaining
[R](https://r-project.org) for the back-end while updating many of the
original Rattle scripts. You are invited to report any issues you
notice on [github](https://github.com/gjwgit/rattleng) where code
contributions are also most welcome.

## Getting Started

Tap the **Dataset** button to choose a data source.  The **Demo**
dataset consists of one year of observations from a weather station in
Canberra.

Alternatively, load your own data, including **csv** (comma separated
value) and **txt** (plain text) files. Support for **xlsx**, **arff**,
**rData**, **odbc**, **corpus**, and R package datasets is planned.

After loading a dataset you can navigate to the **Roles**
feature. Each variable has a role, with most as **Input** (or
independent) variables by default. These are commonly used to predict
a **Target** (dependent) variable. A variable with a unique value for
each observation is automatically identified as **Ident**
(identifier). Idents are ignored when modelling as are those with the
role **Ignore**.

## Work Flow

Rattle encourages a typical data scientist work flow through the left
hand *tabs*. On choosing tab a collection of *features* will be
available through the horizontal tabs. After you *configure* a feature
the *build* button will configure and run an **R template
script**. The results are *display*ed as pages that you can navigate.

At any time visit the **Script** tab to see the **R** code that is
automatically generated. You can export the script as a standalone R
program.

## Resources

Rattle V5 is well covered in **Data Mining with Rattle and R**
(https://bit.ly/rattle_data_mining), as well as other online resources
available through https://rattle.togaware.com. Rattle utilises R
templates as introduced in **The Essentials of Data Science**
(https://bit.ly/essentials_data_science).

Rattle is licensed under the [GNU General Public License, Version
3](https://www.gnu.org/licenses/gpl-3.0.en.html), making it free for
you to use for ever. Rattle comes with ABSOLUTELY NO WARRANTY.

Rattle, RattleNG, and the collection of R template scripts are
Copyright Â© 2006-2024 Togaware Pty Ltd. Rattle is a registered
trademark of Togaware Pty Ltd. Rattle was created and implemented by
Graham Williams with many contributions as acknowledged in the About
menu. Donations to support the ongoing development can be made through
[Togaware](https://togaware.com/onepager.html).

> 
